well I folks it's early February now so
it's time to start my chilis off alright
start off really early because anyway
it's not to warm up no offer that they
do seem to need a heck of a long season
to get ripe to start brighten it up
before sort of September times so I'll
just show you what's varieties I'm gonna
grow gonna try this new one it's called
Apache little dwarf variety hot one I
think
and then we've got Jill's long again
which of the really long like km peppers
about foot long they look great like
this year fantastic plant really
interesting to grow we've got a
different woman she's not actually a hot
pepper but it's a a new revolutionary
hanging basket sweet pepper that look
like peppers well they are sweet mild
apparently and you can grow them outside
and you get by the looks of it and mass
amount massive him at a crop but at six
seeds for three pounds 65 I'm only going
to sell two seeds because I'm not
wasting up at that price I'm too tight
I've got some Japanese pepper seeds
kindly donated by Gary entropy something
they'll give it all to God I supposed to
quite mild and finally will use me on
seed from these these are the prairie
fire chilies I laid them on the plant
even once they've gone right and they
dry up on the plant but because these
are a hybrid plant that just a normal
seed you can just take you take your own
seed from the chilies and they'll come
true from seed the following year and
that's what I've been doing for the last
five or six years just taking the Serb
seed off and using that so I thought
stand up that's an old dried chili one
of them that's dried up so ever break
into it just remember to wash my hands
after cuz I've had some accidents in the
past you break it up and it's absolutely
full of seeds it's more than you're
getting some of these packets I've one
chili look got the twenty sage and I'm
only growing about four like I say you
can grow those and they'll sprout
perfectly and come exactly the way that
the parent plant was so that's me
prairie fires once a look at
then if I'm not plan to last your
lifetime so basically all the data so on
is just three little three inch pots
full of seed compost water a min before
and then all I do I don't do anything
riddling sound I just make a little tiny
hole with a pencil about what five
millimeters day just drop the pencil
with these prairie fires because I've
got the words of your mouth took two or
three seeds in each one because they're
free with some of those that are three
pound sixty five four six seeds I'm not
wasting love and that's just a matter
I'll just just lightly cover them up and
that's it so that was going to the
propagator now they want to be quiet
while about 7075 degrees for well as
long as it takes really probably take
about a week ten days two weeks two to
germinate and they just saw slow that's
what I really annoys me about Chile's
they the sprout and then they just start
seem to move when if you know put one
you'd wouldn't a cellar something
because it's still cold there's no sort
of this time of year but then eventually
once they get to about that's because
they're on your little dwarf plants so
they don't grow much more about 18-inch
some of these but once they get to that
sort of size come about MIT and look
right into the greenhouse and then once
it warms up they just seem to fly off so
I could say that's how I plopped me
Chile saves me forever fires straight
off the seed because they're not an f1
hybrid all the others seem to be hybrids
that from Gary's Japanese peppers which
are the sermons that as mid prairie
fires they can come off your own plant
so I'll say I'll just get on and do that
put me mid propagator
and we're often sewing this year first
thing that I saw every year and that's
it really
not very interesting not very exciting
but to give you an idea of sort of
Chile's I'm growing in power you can
naturally
propagate your own seeds so easily off
non hybridized seed so that's about it
folks
autumn sowing chilies are off off and
running or just a little one these are
make habaneros that are very last year
plumpie to be exact to this time last
year and the juice starting to be ready
now so these are like a 12-month plant
and believe me I'm not
growing these again because they're
about 300,000 on the Scoville heat scale
and they're just ridiculously hot the
earth going in and the air coming out so
never again so that's what it folks
first bits are either this year Don City
later